The unity of the self as subject of auditory, tactual, visual experience, and of thought and volition, and space as the unitary framework that locates the objects of different sensory modalities relative to one another are given together as joint products of the synthesis of sensory experience.

Synthetic unity is not just synchronic, integrating experiences through different modalities at a time. It is also diachronic, integrating experiences over time. It is also an oft-remarked feature of visual experience that we observe movement and change. We don’t see the instantaneous locations of objects and infer movement. We see movement. The movement is part of the immediate uninferred contents of our perceptions. To have an experience that represents an object as in motion, the content of the experience must have temporal breadth; it must span a temporal interval. To see the force of this remark, we distinguish a changing representation from a representation of change. The first requires two experiences with different contents. The second requires a single experience whose content spans that of a pair of instantaneous experiences and compares them with one another. A movie screen that displays a different image at different moments doesn’t represent change. The image on the screen at any given moment only displays an instantaneous state of the environment. Representing change requires having contents that span a finite interval and compare experiences at different moments. The fact that change is something that we see directly—that is, that change is represented in the immediate uninferred contents of sensory experience—means that synthesis is integrating over time, not just across modalities. Concepts of space and time are constructed together by the mind as part of a unitary framework in which we and the objects of sensory attention are simultaneously located and related to one another. The concepts of things as objects of perception and one’s self as subject of experience are stabilized out of regularities over an extended stream of experiences, and they embody presumptions about the way things hang together over time.

Ismael, J. T.. How Physics Makes Us Free (pp. 53-54). Oxford University Press. Kindle Edition.